# Monarch-Butterfly-Optimization
Monarch butterfly optimization (MBO) algorithm inspired by the migration behavior of monarch butterflies. Implemented in C++.

### Description:
  * This heuristic algorithm is based on monarch butterflys behaviour. In the wild, monarch butterfly population migrate south during the summer/autumn from the northern US and southern Canada to Mexico. This algorithm emulates this migration between what is going to be call Land1 and Land2. All the population is distributed between these two lands. Monarch butterflies position update in two different ways.
  #### Migration operator: 
  * Monarch butterflies migrate from land1 to land2 during the month of April, and from land2 to land1 during September. So it could be said that the butterflies of land1 are there for 5
months and those on land2 for 7 months. The number of monarch butterflies in the population can be
represent as $ceil(p∗NP)(NP_1)$ and $NP−NP_1(NP_2)$. Ceil rounds the number to the nearest and greater than or equal to the number, NP is the total number of butterflies and p is the ratio of butterflies on land1. Each population of each land are called subpopulations 1 and 2. The migration process is as follows:

<p align="center"> $x_{i,k}^{t+1}=x_{r_1, k}^t$ </p>

  * where $x_{i,k}^{t+1}$ indicates the $k$ element of $x_i$ in the $t+1$ generation that represents the $i$ butterfly. $r_1$ is the new random generated butterfly from subpopulation1. When $r\leq p$, the $k$ element in the new butterfly is generated by the first equation. $r$ can be calculated as follows:
   
<p align="center"> $r=rand*peri$ </p>

  * $Peri$ indicates the migration period. It is usually set to $1.2$ (12 months). $Rand$ is a random number generated by a uniform distribution. If $r > p$, then the $k$ element is generated as follows:
  
<p align="center"> $x_{i,k}^{t+1}=x_{r_2, k}^t$ </p>  

  * Where $r_2$ means a butterfly from suopopulation2.

### Data Sets:
  * Parkinsons – data used to distinguish presence or absence
of Parkinson's disease. It consists of 195 examples, 23 attributes and 2 classes.

  * Spectf-heart – contains attributes calculated from images
medical computed tomography. The task is to find out if the
physiology of the heart is correct. Consists of 267 examples, 45 attributes
and 2 classes.

  * Ionosphere – radar data collected at Goose Bay. Its objective is to
classify electrons as "good" and "bad" depending on whether they have
some kind of structure in the ionosphere. It consists of 352 examples, 34
attributes and 2 classes.

-----HOW TO RUN IT-----

1 - To compile run "make" in the terminal.

2 - To run the program go to the terminal and run "./bin/mbo <seed> <parameter>" where
<seed> is the seed we choose and
<parameter> can be:
		-> 1: spectf-heart
		-> 2: parkinsons
		-> 3: ionosphere

--- Other things will get an error ---

[USE] -> A script is attached for a more comfortable execution of the results in text files, the script is "script_acp.sh".
All data sets can be executed concurrently (which makes the individual times of each program greater, but it is faster when it comes to obtain results).
If, on the contrary, it is desired, it can be executed sequentially. All of this is specified in the script itself.
